angular permission (#33)
C0D1UM/technical-standard: angular/permissions/README.md

# Permissions

> After authentication, we will get the authority data from the server such as token, role, permission, etc., and collected them in the authentication service or local storage for authorization in router and component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After authenticated, we will get the authorized data from the server such as token, role, permission, etc., and store them in the authentication service or local storage for authorization in router and component.
```

## Service

> The permission service helps you about finding permission and getting a role from the authority data stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permission service helps you getting permission and role from the authorized data stored.
```

First, you should define the model of permission that is got from the backend. For example,

```typescript
// permission.model.ts

export interface UserPermission {
  id: number;
  codename: string;
  app_label: string;
}
```

> In the permission service there are two important methods about permission is `findPermission` and `hasPermission`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the permission service, there are two important methods `findPermission` and `hasPermission`.
```

```typescript
// permission.service.ts

export class PermissionService {
  constructors(private authService: AuthenticationService) {}

  findPermission(codeName: string): UserPermission {
    if (!codeName) {
      throw new Error('No argument code name at hasPermission');
    }
    const userPermission = this.authService.currentUser;
    if (userPermission) {
      return userPermission.find(
        permission => permission.codename === codeName
      );
    } else {
      throw new Error('Missing user permission');
    }
  }

  hasPermission(codeName: string, actionType?: string): boolean {
    const permission = actionType ? actionType + '_' + codeName : codeName;
    try {
      return !!this.findPermission(permission);
    } catch (error) {
      return false;
    }
  }
}
```

Some accession may be used to check the role of a user such as `admin`. For convenience, you may use getter for checking the specific role from the stored data.

```typescript
export class PermissionService {
  ...

  get role(): boolean {
    return localStorage.getItem('role_name');
  }

  get isAdmin(): boolean {

>     return this.roles() === 'admin';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return this.role() === 'admin';
```

Reviewer 2: Should it be like this krub since it is a getter?

```suggestion
    return this.role === 'admin';
```

  }
}
```

## Guard

> Guard is used for protecting URL routes from unwanted users to access them. The main guard that is typically used is `AuthGuard` which verifies authentication (there is in Authentication). However, in some routes, you may want more than one guard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guard is used for protecting URL routes from unauthorized user. The main guard that is typically used, is `AuthGuard` which verifies authentication (there is in Authentication). However, in some routes, you may want to have more than one guard.
```

For example, this guard checks the user who has the `admin` role and the `view_memo` permission.
The `true` of returning will allow the page accession and if it isn't you can force to navigate to the default route by returning `URLTree`.

```typescript
// memo.guard.ts

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class MemoGuard implements CanActivateChild {
  constructor(private router: Router) {}

  canActivateChild(
    next: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
    state: RouterStateSnapshot
  ): boolean {
    if (
      localStorage.getItem('currentUser') &&

>       localStorage.getItem('role_name') === 'admin'

Reviewer 2: I think we should use `PermissionService`, isn't it krubb?

Author: Oh, yes krub.

    ) {
      return true;
    }
    return this.router.parseUrl('/');
  }
}
```

```typescript
// app-routing.module.ts
export const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: MainComponent,
    canActivate: [AuthGuard],
    children: [
      {
        path: 'memo',
        component: MemoComponent,
        canActivate: [MemoGuard],
      }
    ]
  },
];
```

See detail in <https://angular.io/guide/router> and <https://angular.io/guide/router-tutorial-toh>

## Component

> To check permission you must inject `PermissionService` in your component and call it in `ngOnInit()` or up to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check permission, you must inject `PermissionService` in your component and call it in `ngOnInit()` or up to use them.
```

```typescript
export class Component implement OnInit {
  isApprove = false;

  constructor(private permission: PermissionService) {}

  ngOnInit() {

>     this.isApprove = this.permission.hasPermission('approver');

Reviewer 2: I think it is better to write as a getter krub, in case user permission can be changed on-the-fly krubb.

  }
}
```

> Applied permission to your HTML.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applied permission to your template.
```

  constructor(
    private authService: AuthenticationService,
    private permission: PermissionService,
    private router: Router
  ) {}

  canActivateChild(
    next: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
    state: RouterStateSnapshot
  ): boolean {
    if (this.authService.currentUser && this.permission.isAdmin) {
      return true;
    }
    return this.router.parseUrl('/');
  }
}
```

```typescript
// app-routing.module.ts
export const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: MainComponent,
    canActivate: [AuthGuard],
    children: [
      {
        path: 'memo',
        component: MemoComponent,
        canActivate: [MemoGuard],
      },
    ],
  },
];
```

See detail in <https://angular.io/guide/router> and <https://angular.io/guide/router-tutorial-toh>

## Component

To check permission, you must inject `PermissionService` in your component and create getter to use it.

```typescript
export class Component implement OnInit {
  constructor(private permission: PermissionService) {}

  ...

  isApprover(): boolean {
    return this.permission.hasPermission('approver');
  }
}
```

Applied permission to your template.

```html
<div class="example">

>   <button *ngIf="isApprover">Approve</button>

Reviewer 3: from your code, isApprover is a function. So you should use `*ngIf="isApprover()"` ?

Reviewer 2: I guess `isApprover` should be getter krubb @kostekor

Author: Oh sorry, I missed it. Right, it is getter krub
